Adds Pulumi ESC + GitHub Actions integrations page (#12419)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/esc/other-integrations/github-actions.md

Now that the Pulumi ESC Environment is created, it can be consumed in a variety of ways, such as running other shell commands without having to set the environment variables locally first.

### Use ESC with `gh login`

The `esc run` command opens the Environment you previously created, sets the specified environment variables into a temporary environment, and then uses those environment variables in the context of the `gh` commands.

Log into your GitHub account without needing to manage the credentials locally.

```bash
# ensure you're currently not logged in
$ gh auth logout

# retrieve the esc environment, and
# authenticate programmatically against github.com
$ ESC_ENV=my-gh-login
$ esc run -i ${ESC_ENV}  -- sh -c 'gh auth login --with-token < $GH_PAT'

# confirm you're now logged in
$ gh auth status
# github.com
#   ✓ Logged in to github.com account desteves (keyring)
#   - Active account: true
#   - Git operations protocol: https
#   - Token: github_pat_11AAW2NYI0gtUYVcFfShHL_***
```

For additional options and details, see `esc run --help`.

> Using Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with GitHub Actions? The next section demonstrates Pulumi ESC alongside Pulumi IaC deployments.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused about the focus of this page. The title implies that this is about integrating ESC with Github Actions - but these sections don't have anything to do with that - they appear to be about using ESC to log in to the `gh` CLI?

Author: Hey Komal, thank you for looking at this. There is a [separate issue](https://github.com/pulumi/docs/issues/12503) to track additional ESC with GitHub Actions use cases on this page. The initial scope is to cover the gh cli example you mentioned as well as integrate our Pulumi GH Action + ESC. The later example is more on par with the page title. The goal is to publish these initial use cases for the recent GitHub + Pulumi workshop and add more cases after PulumiUp.

---

> title_tag: Integrate with GitHub Actions | Pulumi ESC

Reviewer 2: There is more than one way to do this (like our new auth-actions and OIDC trust), as well as other integrations (like setting environment variables, not just using in Pulumi IaC.  Should we have multiple flavors of this doc?

Reviewer 3: @cleverguy25  - the scope of this initial commit is to add docs to match the workshop that we're running next week. I suspect that we'll want to add sections for these alternative options but will defer to @interurban on how he wants to staff/deliver those additional docs.

Author: @cleverguy25 @interurban I ended up filing #12503 to track these suggestions.

title: GitHub Actions
h1: "Pulumi ESC: Integrate with GitHub Actions"
meta_desc: This page provides an overview of how to use Pulumi ESC with GitHub Actions.
weight: 2
menu:
  pulumiesc:
    parent: esc-other-integrations
    identifier: esc-other-integrations-github-actions
---

## Overview

> Pulumi ESC integrates with [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) (GHA) to help developers automatically manage configuration and secrets when running workflows. Additionally, Pulumi ESC works with the [Pulumi CLI Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pulumi-cli-action#pulumi-github-actions) to provide secrets to workflow jobs and steps, such as AWS Credentials.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure we should abbreviate GitHub actions; their docs seem not to: https://docs.github.com/en/actions

Author: Good point, I'll spell it out going forward!

> Pulumi ESC integrates with [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) (GHA) to help developers automatically manage configuration and secrets when running workflows. Additionally, Pulumi ESC works with the [Pulumi CLI Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pulumi-cli-action#pulumi-github-actions) to provide secrets to workflow jobs and steps, such as AWS Credentials.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pulumi ESC integrates with [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) to help developers automatically manage configuration and secrets when running workflows. Additionally, Pulumi ESC works with the [Pulumi CLI Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pulumi-cli-action#pulumi-github-actions) to provide secrets to workflow jobs and steps, such as AWS Credentials.
```

> {{< notes type="info" >}}

Reviewer 4: This part seems out of place for a ref doc, check out the layout of the other docs for TF/Kubernetes

Author: Updated.

**What is Pulumi ESC?** Pulumi ESC (Environments, Secrets, and Configuration) allows you to define collections of configuration settings and secrets, known as environments, and utilize them in any application or service. [Learn more](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/esc/)
{{< /notes >}}

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have:

- installed [Pulumi ESC](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/install/esc/)
- installed [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)
- a Pulumi Cloud account. You can sign up for an [always-free, individual account](https://app.pulumi.com/signup).
- a GitHub account. You can sign up for an [account here](https://github.com/join).

{{< notes type="info" >}}
**New to Pulumi ESC?** Complete the [Getting Started tutorial](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/esc/get-started/)
{{< /notes >}}

In addition to the Pulumi ESC and GHA integrations below, consider authenticating to your Pulumi Cloud with GitHub OIDC. [Follow the guide](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/pulumi-cloud/oidc/client/github/) to enable the [Pulumi Auth Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pulumi-auth-action).

## Log in to your GitHub account

> Programmatically log in to your GitHub account from your terminal without having to locally store your token. Note, that a fine-grained GitHub personal access token is required. Follow the [GitHub instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-fine-grained-personal-access-token) to create one.

Reviewer 4: Is this part a step? or a goal? Are we saying you need to log in ahead of time or the steps will show you how to programmatically log in?

Author: This is the goal itself. I'll clarify.

Author: Updated.

Now that the Pulumi ESC Environment is created, it can be consumed in a variety of ways, such as running other shell commands without having to set the environment variables locally first.

### Use ESC with `gh login`

The `esc run` command opens the Environment you previously created, sets the specified environment variables into a temporary environment, and then uses those environment variables in the context of the `gh` commands.

Log into your GitHub account without needing to manage the credentials locally.

```bash
# ensure you're currently not logged in
$ gh auth logout

# retrieve the esc environment, and
# authenticate programmatically against github.com
$ ESC_ENV=my-gh-login
$ esc run -i ${ESC_ENV}  -- sh -c 'gh auth login --with-token < $GH_PAT'

# confirm you're now logged in
$ gh auth status
# github.com
#   ✓ Logged in to github.com account desteves (keyring)
#   - Active account: true
#   - Git operations protocol: https
#   - Token: github_pat_11AAW2NYI0gtUYVcFfShHL_***
```

For additional options and details, see `esc run --help`.

> Using Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with GHA? See the next section to see how to leverage Pulumi ESC alongside.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with GitHub Actions? The next section demonstrates Pulumi ESC alongside Pulumi IaC deployments.
```

> ## Manage credentials for the [Pulumi CLI Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pulumi-cli-action#pulumi-github-actions)

Reviewer 4: This is where the 'tutorial' part starts, I'd suggest we add this to a new tutorial vs the ref doc.

Reviewer 3: @interurban - can we ship this version and break out the tutorial once one is written?  Trying to avoid increasing scope on this specific deliverable (docs to match the workshop we're already running).

Pulumi ESC works hand-in-hand with Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to simplify configuration and secrets management. This integration enables you to set up workflows that automatically provision cloud resources defined in your IaC, while securely accessing all necessary credentials for deployment.

{{< notes type="info" >}}

> **New to Pulumi IaC?** Complete the [Getting Started tutorial](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pulumi/tutorial/hello-world/).

Reviewer 3: I think we want to link to our Get Started pages not the CF tutorial
